# Struggle from Ubuntu 16.04 to 18.04

I want to install BaiduYunpan for Linux, but actually I have tried it before, which cannot work for my current version. However, I note that the version has been updated, although it is still for Ubuntu 18.04, not Ubuntu 16.04. 

Same results with the previous try, cannot start it after installing it, and no error thrown in the install procedure. But today I went further, I found that after I type

```bash
/opt/baidunetdisk/baidunetdisk 
```

it throws an error,

> This program requires version 3.3.0 of the Protocol Buffer runtime library, but the installed version is 2.6.1.

Try to install latest version from [protocolbuffers/protobuf](https://github.com/protocolbuffers/protobuf), first time the latest one, 3.14, but it doesn't work and it require `.so.9`, while v3.14 has a `.so.22`, I also tried copy `.so.22` to `.so.9`, or make a soft link, doesn't work. The second time I install `v3.3`, the `.so.[NUM]` still does not match, and hence doesn't work.

The error is 

> libmirprotobuf.so.3: undefined symbol: _ZNK6google8protobuf11MessageLite25InitializationErrorStringB5cxx11Ev

and then I follow the instructions in [Ubuntu: mir package](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/mir/+bug/1527137)

```bash
sudo apt-get purge libprotobuf-lite9v5
sudo apt-get install libprotobuf-lite9v5
```

the first step throws the dependencies warnings, related to `libqt5`, then I uninstall `libqt5`. Unfortunately, many running programs then exit when the uninstalling procedure keeps going, and I found that I make a big mistake!!

Now, maybe the best way is to update my system from Ubuntu 16.04 to Ubuntu 18.04 to recover the broken system. Actually I have updated my old PC from 16.04 to 18.04, seems quite fluent.

However, for this PC, there are many disappointing problem.

```bash
sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get dist-upgrade
sudo apt autoremove
```

it is necessary to modify `/etc/update-manager/release-upgrades` from `never` to `lts`, otherwise it cannot detect new release version. Then run

```bash
sudo do-release-upgrade
```

_refer to [将 Ubuntu 16.04 LTS 升级到 Ubuntu 18.04 LTS](https://jingyan.baidu.com/article/2f9b480de8b64941cb6cc2a1.html)_

Due to previous HK Ubuntu mirror, the speed is quite slow, then the first thing I need to do is to replace the mirror in `/etc/apt/sources.list` with aliyun by `sed` operation via

```bash
sudo sed -i "s#http://ftp.cuhk.edu.hk/pub/Linux/ubuntu/#http://mirrors.aliyun.com/ubuntu/#" sources.list
```

后来更新至，

```bash
sudo sed -i "s#ftp.cuhk.edu.hk/pub/Linux#archive.ubuntu.com#g" sources.list
```

Then go on. However, I mistook enter something in the middle, and stop the installation procedure, that is might be part of the reason why I met so many problems.

Try to run `do-release-upgrade` again, but it said no new release version, and told me to upgrade the software in the current version. Actually it is Ubuntu 18.04 now, checking by

```bash
lsb_release -a
```

then I run 

```bash
sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get upgrade
```

after the first run, I think I am OK. But in the rebooting, I cannot enter into the system, the Ubuntu logo is twinkling, and sometimes I can switch to the command window, it holds with message

> a start job is running for hold until boot process finishes up（X s/unlimit）

but do not want to try the re-install solution in [问题1：a start job is running for hold until boot process finishes up（X s/unlimit）](https://blog.csdn.net/Natsume_Z_Kenshin/article/details/81283828), because I guess my situation would be quite different, since I uninstall `libqt5`, and interrupt the normal release updating procedure, 

Then I found some other possible solutions,

```bash
sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get install --reinstall ubuntu-desktop
sudo apt-get install unity
```

But the first thing I need to do is to stop it by power, and then choose to start an advanced session in the grub session, and I chose a `recovery mode`, then I entered into a command line. And I can continue to fix the problem.

But before I can install the `desktop`, repeat to run `update` and `upgrade`, then updating texlive from 2015 to 2017 throws an error,

> dpkg: error processing archive /var/cache/apt/archives/texlive-fonts-extra-doc_2017.20180305-2_all.deb (--unpack):
> trying to overwrite '/usr/share/doc/texlive-doc/latex/mweights/README', which is also in package texlive-latex-extra-doc 2015.20160320-1
> dpkg-deb: error: paste subprocess was killed by signal (Broken pipe)

try `install -f`, but does not work, the solution is

```bash
sudo dpkg -i --force-all /var/cache/apt/archives/texlive-fonts-extra-doc_2017.20180305-2_all.deb
```

refer to [在apt更新texlive到2017的问题](https://debug.fanzheng.org/post/problem-when-update-texlive.html)

then I reboot to test, but the internet broken, `ifconfig` only returns `lo`, but `ifconfig -a` shows all possible cards, I have tried `service restart` like in [UBUNTU ifconfig只有lo](https://blog.csdn.net/zhukangle/article/details/75370538), but it does not work, then I found the solution worked for me

```bash
sudo dhclient enp**
```

in [Ubuntu输入ifconfig找不到IP地址，只有lo问题](https://blog.csdn.net/weixin_42116341/article/details/81410805).

Reboot after the `desktop` is successfully installed, I can enter into the graphical system!!


